---
title: Pursued Concept 
date: 2026-04-22
author: Gia Phu Le
summary: Exploring considerations for chosen concept
tags:
  - concept-selection
  - recover-hub
  - limitations-and-requirements
---
# Commiting to recovery
After much thinking of how each ideas are developed we've decided to commit on the recovery web app idea. The reason for this is that the design seemed conceptually interesting, with creative aspects, but also because it had the most defined relationship between functional requirements, and data needs. The idea also possessed unique features to facilitate community interactions that allowed users to look back at past experiences and discuss with others, rather than being a simple tracker or healthcare journal.

## Why?
While concepting the recovery-hub design one of the first advantages it revealed it had over the other ideas were that it presented itself within a clear problem space, similar to the artist career hub, but different in that it had a unique social function and community related interaction, along with its personal purposes of tracking recovery. Aside from helping recovery progress with context based documentation, users can bookmark related posts, and browse discussions of people with similar situations. This combination makes the app a hybrid between private journals and health forums with much room for exploration.

## Early Requirements
As part of concepting the idea further, I mapped out drafts of possible core requirements for the final prototype: 
- Users can easily log in and have their login be remembered.
- Users can log their injury details
- Users will be able to view recovery progress, divided in stages
- User can update their recovery through reflective logs
- Users can browse stories from others who have similar experiences
- Users can interact with these posts in various ways like saving, or replying
- Users can post their own stories of recovery

## Boundaries
The final web app should not be a diagnosis tool, nor a medical advisor, without verified qualification, the design aims to be a community hub, a reflective tool, and an initiator for social engagement in similar experiences. For the actual tracking within the web app, users are urged to update on their own recovery and move through stages, with the option to take recovery recommendations from discussions related to their injury. While advanced personalised treatment plans takes away from the purpose of the brief, and would also be outside of realistic scope of execution.

## Risks
Within these boundaries there are still considerable risks for design such as, privacy of injury data, unsafe advice from community posts, and making the Explore page relevant. Some possible solutions for these risks could be implementing clear sharing preferences that allow users to control what information is visible, that notifies the user when they create an account and gives them the choice of opting out of the agreement to not use their data. While unsafe advice can be filtered with moderative features like reports that let other users flag the post for unhelpful conduct. Finally the Explore page would need a filtered search feature that lets user go through specific posts that share their context.

## Next steps 
With the considerations for functional requirements, risks, as well as design boundaries laid out, I will look to give the deisgn a tangible layout that demonstrates the effectiveness of intended user-flow, and how to visually implement our requirements across this flow.