---
title: Reflection
date: 2026-05-29
author: Gia Phu Le
summary: Reflecting on improvements of final prototype
tags:
  - DDD
  - ERD
  - technical-planning
---
## About our Web App
Through our project, we were able to build a recovery hub web app. Users are able to use the app as an online journal for their self-recovery, while also participate in discussions with others about various medical experiences. The app provides users witha guideline for possible stages of recovery namely "Early Recovery", "Controlled Return", "Building Confidence" and "Return to Activity". Users will be able to set their recovery context, and submit update logs of their recovery to advance in their recovery progress. The social aspects of the site includes a an archiving feature that lets users save interesting posts to their account, and report malicious and unhelpful posts. To strengthen the social aspects of the prototype, the web app includes a privacy policy, and adjustable privacy settings, that lets users keep their activity and/or information private and secured.

## Technical User-Flow
Through development we first narrowed down the important routes and core behaviours within our web app. The general user-flow consisted of logging in, setting recovery context, checking progress, and progress details, browsing community posts, then making your own recovery logs and/or discussion. To present this, our routes worked across Home, Account, Recovery, Stage Details, Explore, Write Recovery Logs, and Create Dicussion. Interactions within these pages prompted inclusions of features like error and empty states for things like incorrect URL, or missing input in required fields, and validative feedback to affirm user actions like saving community discussions to your personal archive, or when making a report on a post.

I thoroughly tested these processes following the main user flow as well as deviated flows to ensure accessible behaviour across the web app. Like making sure the users can cancel from 'Writing Recovery Log' to go back to main navigation pages. Invalid URL and input errors shows clear messages instead of breaking the page, and saving and reporting public posts returns confirmation feedback to make the interface feel more reliable. Furthermore, as the theme of the web app surrounds medical data, privacy settings were placed to make users feel more secured, affecting public visbility directly rather than being visual controls that acts as a placeholder.

Terminal testing within the project files that I ran were namely:
- npm run build
- npm run lint
- npm test
that checked for proper Typescript compilation, code quality, and model behaviour. Other notable methods implemented are WAVE testing, keyboard navigation, and click based navigation. The app was able to perform consistently and present intended outputs, however for future references, it could use multi-user scenarios that could test our user-flow in in more practical uses with more details.

(Add WAVE testing image)

## UX and Accessibility 
The main navigation snapshot of the site displayed comprehensive interactions, with pages formatted with sticky navigation bar containing essential functional tabs, while main contents are presented as big blocks of information, and subsidiary contents are organised as side rails, serving to provide additional redirection and summaries of other pages for convenient navigation.  Improved from our inital grid like presentation, that didn't properly convey hierarchy.

While it didn't provide an intuitive presentation, my first solutions in removing some key blocks of information weren't exactly correct, as they also removed layers of depth within the app's functions:

(Add Images of Old Branch to New) 

 Specific changes across each pages are that Account features being separated from main recovery flow for more streamlined interactions. Explore pages were enhanced with added working filters, and post interactions like save, and reports, that made the experience more socially engaging. And recovery page became less cluttered with information, and focused towards user progress and inputs. Other familiar ideas that needed some time to develop are the feedback messages for both negatives and positives outcomes, and actionable empty states that refined the web app by facilitating helpful interactions between the system and user.

 (Add 1 - 2 Before/After Images of mentioned features)

 ## Highlights in Planning and Limitations

To build this web app, we had to go through a number of interface iteration, as well as functional improvements that can be summarised and understood through key shifts. Different stages of wireframes for the pages across the web app were created in the interest of tightenting its navigation clarity. Side rails were introduced as a way to create a balance between main content and supporting tabs unlike the original iteration lacking information hierarchy. Recovery user-flows and log updates were updated with improved modularity to ensure clean interactions of web app pages. Validative, error feedbacks and the additional privacy settings made the design feel much more responsible and professional. On the otherhand, the site also presents a number of limits. While we included privacy configuration for each user, it isn't held up as a professional grade security system. Matching algorithms across the web app used for functions like suggested users, and posts are simple and relies on specific preset inputs, instead of keywords that could provide more intuitive recommendations. Our image uploading is present at a UI level however it wasn't properly supported with backend logic. Finally, more user testing would also provide us with more in depth feedback on possible areas of improvements within our development.

These limitations are able to point us in necessary direction that we have to follow to fine tune the web app for professional standards. For a public use ready version, image uploads would be able to be stored in database, and recommendations rules will be detailed and specified. Following the development improvements, the overall web app will also need more personalised teseting, across desktop and mobile interfaces.

## Functional Requirements

Our starting concept adopted a user flow that would take user recovery context and provide advice based on secondary research to the user. Users would then take on these advice and document their experience through community posts online. However the scope of the concept was quite far fetched, as it needed proper trust systems and professional backing to provide valid medical advice. Furthermore, the web app also have needed a deep and complicated recommendation algorithm to provide appropriate references from just their short recovery context. 

This lead to our shifts towards a more community centred and personal design. The final web app allows users to create their recovery context, view its details, and update their progress through personal anecdotes in forms of logs. For the community integration, users can receive suggested posts based on their recovery context that details others experiences without the framing of the web app giving medical advice. The community hub includes a number of interactions like saving posts, reporting, and viewing profiles. To strengthen the readiness of the prototype, we also included privacy features and settings, that lets user ensure a secure experiences.

During the transition between the original and current functional requirements, certain tabs like stage/log/timeline were merged into one recovery tab for more streamlined uses, and community interactions and privacy functions had increase in priority. This way the experience within the web app feels controlled and relaxed and act more as a online journal with socialisation aspects rather than a professional medical agent.

## Conclusion

